Add release strategy to community documentation (#1809)
ESMValGroup/ESMValTool: doc/sphinx/source/community/release_strategy.rst

Release Strategy for ESMValCore and ESMValTool
================================================

> The goal of this document is to lay out a process for the release of ESMValCore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the process for the release of ESMValCore
```

and ESMValTool.

> By following a defined process, we hope to streamline the work, reduce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By following a defined process, we streamline the work, reduce
```

uncertainty about required actions, and clarify the state of the code for the
user.

> We propose to follow a strategy of timed releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ESMValTool follows a strategy of timed releases.
```

> That means that we will do releases with a regular frequency and all features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That means that we do releases with a regular frequency and all features
```

that are implemented up to a certain cut-off-point can go

> into the upcoming release; those that are not will be deferred to the next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
into the upcoming release; those that are not are deferred to the next
```

release.
This means that generally no release will be delayed due to a pending feature.
Instead, the regular nature of the release guarantees that every feature can be
released in a timely manner even if a specific target release is missed.

> Because of limited resources, only the latest released versions of ESMValTool and ESMValCore will be maintained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of limited resources, only the latest released versions of ESMValTool and ESMValCore is maintained.
```

7. ESMValTool release
8. Soon after the release, the core development team meets to coordinate the content of the milestone for the next release

Release schedule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the following release schedule, we strive to have three releases per year and to avoid releases too close to holidays, as well as avoiding weekends.

- 2.0.0 (Release Manager: Bouwe Andela)

+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-07-01 |ESMValCore feature freeze |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-07-20 |ESMValCore release        |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-07-22 |ESMValTool feature freeze |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-08-03 |ESMValTool release        |
+------------+--------------------------+

- 2.1.0 (Release Manager: Valeriu Predoi)

+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-10-05 |ESMValCore feature freeze |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-10-12 |ESMValCore release        |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-10-19 |ESMValTool feature freeze |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2020-10-26 |ESMValTool release        |
+------------+--------------------------+

> - 2.2.0 (Release Manager: n/a)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 2.2.0 (Release Manager: tbd.)
```

+------------+--------------------------+
| 2021-02-01 |ESMValCore feature freeze |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2021-02-07 |ESMValCore release        |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2021-02-14 |ESMValTool feature freeze |
+------------+--------------------------+
| 2021-02-21 |ESMValTool release        |
+------------+--------------------------+

> - 2.3.0 (Release Manager: n/a)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 2.3.0 (Release Manager: tbd)
```

Detailed timeline steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These are the detailed steps to take to make a release.

1. Populate the milestone

   - The core development team will make sure it adds issues that it intends to work on as early as possible.
   - Any contributor is welcome to add issues or pull requests that they intend to work on themselves to a milestone.

2. ESMValCore feature freeze

   - A release branch is created and branch protection rules are set up so only the release manager (i.e. the person in charge of the release branch) can push commits to that branch.
   - The creation of the release branch is announced to the ESMValTool development team along with the procedures to use the branch for testing and making last-minute changes (see next step)

3. Some additional testing of ESMValCore

   - Run all the recipes (optionally with a reduced amount of data) to check that they still work
   - If a bug is discovered that needs to be fixed before the release, a pull request can be made to the master branch to fix the bug. The person making the pull request can then ask the release manager to cherry-pick that commit into the release branch.

4. ESMValCore release

>    - Make the release: https://docs.esmvaltool.org/projects/esmvalcore/en/latest/contributing.html#how-to-make-a-release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Make the release by following [the instructions](https://docs.esmvaltool.org/projects/esmvalcore/en/latest/contributing.html#how-to-make-a-release)
```

Author: Done.

   - Ask the user engagement team to announce the release to the user mailing list, the development team mailing list, on twitter

5. ESMValTool feature freeze

   - A release branch is created and branch protection rules are set up so only the release manager (i.e. the person in charge of the release branch) can push commits to that branch.
   - The creation of the release branch is announced to the ESMValTool development team along with the procedures to use the branch for testing and making last-minute changes (see next step)

6. Some additional testing of ESMValTool

   - Run all the recipes to check that they still work and ask authors to review the plots
   - If a bug is discovered that needs to be fixed before the release, a pull request can be made to the master branch to fix the bug. The person making the pull request can then ask the release manager to cherry-pick that commit into the release branch.

7. ESMValTool release

>    - Make the release: https://docs.esmvaltool.org/en/latest/community/introduction.html#how-to-make-a-release

Reviewer 2: Could you please replace this by a relative link to the other section?
